{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2757
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green25\blue27;\red255\green255\blue255;\red46\green49\blue51;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12941\c14118;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c23529\c25098\c26275;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww33100\viewh20700\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs48 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
About Dataset\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 Ryerson Audio-Visual Database of Emotional Speech and Song (RAVDESS)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf4 \cb3 Speech audio-only files (16bit, 48kHz .wav) from the RAVDESS. Full dataset of speech and song, audio and video (24.8 GB) available from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zenodo.org/record/1188976"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Zenodo}}. Construction and perceptual validation of the RAVDESS is described in our Open Access {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0196391"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 paper in PLoS ONE}}.\cb1 \
\cb3 Check out our {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.kaggle.com/uwrfkaggler/ravdess-emotional-song-audio"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Kaggle Song emotion dataset}}.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 \cb3 Files
\f1\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 This portion of the RAVDESS contains 1440 files: 60 trials per actor x 24 actors = 1440. The RAVDESS contains 24 professional actors (12 female, 12 male), vocalizing two lexically-matched statements in a neutral North American accent. Speech emotions includes calm, happy, sad, angry, fearful, surprise, and disgust expressions. Each expression is produced at two levels of emotional intensity (normal, strong), with an additional neutral expression.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 \cb3 File naming convention
\f1\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 Each of the 1440 files has a unique filename. The filename consists of a 7-part numerical identifier (e.g., 03-01-06-01-02-01-12.wav). These identifiers define the stimulus characteristics:\cb1 \
\cb3 Filename identifiers\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Modality (01 = full-AV, 02 = video-only, 03 = audio-only).\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Vocal channel (01 = speech, 02 = song).\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Emotion (01 = neutral, 02 = calm, 03 = happy, 04 = sad, 05 = angry, 06 = fearful, 07 = disgust, 08 = surprised).\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Emotional intensity (01 = normal, 02 = strong). NOTE: There is no strong intensity for the 'neutral' emotion.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Statement (01 = "Kids are talking by the door", 02 = "Dogs are sitting by the door").\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Repetition (01 = 1st repetition, 02 = 2nd repetition).\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Actor (01 to 24. Odd numbered actors are male, even numbered actors are female).\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 Filename example: 03-01-06-01-02-01-12.wav\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa160\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Audio-only (03)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Speech (01)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fearful (06)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Normal intensity (01)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	5	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Statement "dogs" (02)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	6	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1st Repetition (01)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	7	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
12th Actor (12)\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Female, as the actor ID number is even.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf4 \cb3 How to cite the RAVDESS
\f1\b0 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb3 Academic citation\cb1 \
\cb3 If you use the RAVDESS in an academic publication, please use the following citation: Livingstone SR, Russo FA (2018) The Ryerson Audio-Visual Database of Emotional Speech and Song (RAVDESS): A dynamic, multimodal set of facial and vocal expressions in North American English. PLoS ONE 13(5): e0196391. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0196391"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0196391}}.\cb1 \
\cb3 All other attributions\cb1 \
\cb3 If you use the RAVDESS in a form other than an academic publication, such as in a blog post, school project, or non-commercial product, please use the following attribution: "The Ryerson Audio-Visual Database of Emotional Speech and Song (RAVDESS)" by Livingstone & Russo is licensed under CC BY-NA-SC 4.0.}